well howdy there Internet people let's
bow again so today is another
installment in the series of videos
about historical facts and events that
don't get the coverage they should or at
all this particular topic was suggested
by a history teacher if you have watched
this channel for any length of time or
you've seen the channel trailer you know
the public school teachers can ask for
well pretty much anything and I will try
to accommodate them regardless of how
uncomfortable it might make me we talked
in the last video in this series about
freedom and how freedom is scary and
normally when people are faced with
freedom they go with what they know and
this is probably true even in your life
when you're looking for a new job you
could reinvent yourself but the odds are
you're gonna look for something you have
experience on and it's not just because
it's easier to get hired there's more to
it than that you go with what you know
something you can predict the outcome of
something that is more certain this
would especially be true if you were
experiencing freedom for the first time
so with all of that in mind today we are
going to talk about black people and
watermelons and everybody watching this
just what ya those jokes are even worse
than you might imagine
a lot of slave owners allowed their
slaves to grow watermelon to eat some
even allow them to sell them so when
slavery ended what did these newly free
people what did they know what what
outcomes could they predict what do they
have the skills to do what markets did
they understand so a lot of them grew
watermelon gave them the means help get
them on their feet before the hope was
damped out it gave them a glimmer of
hope that they might be able to advance
get ahead
in a lot of ways watermelon
should be the fruit of freedom it should
be something that they look at as a
symbol of pride but because that means
and then getting on their feet was a
threat to the white establishment the
south well they had to repackage some
old jokes
they weren't even original most of those
jokes were made about italians and arabs
before but it's stuck became a
stereotype became a trope the whole idea
you know because it's sugary and it's
sweet makes it childlike so they're
simple and then they get sticky and
they're dirty all of it and it's stuck
so it's horrible not just because it's
racist
but because it took something that
should be a symbol of pride something
that that helped get a lot of people on
their feet and it robbed him of it took
it away made it something to be
embarrassed of you know and that's
something that happens a lot the powers
that be they use one group as the other
those to look down on so they can make
everybody else feel better about
themselves and their station and life
keep everybody kicking down keeping
those other people in their place and
that's going on for so long that that
attitude and those jokes and all that so
that scene is like a symbol of strength
doing that to other people that makes
you strong no it doesn't strong people
aren't afraid of competition
it displays an inherent insecurity those
jokes need to go away not just not just
because yeah they're racist and they're
stupid but because it should be
something that they could take pride in
this is a a moment that could be viewed
through the lens of light
this is the beginning of our freedom
this this is this is what helped us you
know they can't reach back further than
that because it wasn't in the slave
owners interest to keep track of where
they're from so they can't go that far
back with their cultural identity but
this could be the beginning that could
be something that they could use a
watermelon but it's been taken from them
by bigots it's been turned into a
stereotype and when I would imagine that
if I was black I don't know that I would
want to eat watermelon in public because
of the stereotype because it's gone on
so long and it's so funny right you
can't let anybody have anything anyway
it's just a fault you know have a good
day